Continuous discharge is calculated using water column height data from the same calibrated pressure data used to produce Elevation of surface water (DP1.20016.001). An enhanced algorithm was implemented beginning with RELEASE-2025 and in all subsequent releases, applying to all Water Years starting with Water Year 2022 (from October 1, 2021). Water column height is cleaned by removing periods of erratic data.  Shifts resulting from unintended movement of the pressure sensor are corrected.  Gaps resulting from missing or cleaned data are then filled using the relationship with a secondary pressure sensor, or another parameter such as specific conductance.  Indicator flags identifying which cleaning and gap-filling method was used are included in the expanded data package. Water column height is then converted to equivalent stage using a regression equation developed using the observed gauge heights (DP1.20048.001). Regression information is included in sdrc_gaugePressureRelationship and csd_gaugeWaterColumnRegression tables published in the expanded package of this data product. 

The equivalent stage values are then converted to discharge by applying the Stage-discharge rating curve (DP4.00133.001) developed using a Bayesian model (Le Coz et al. 2014) which returns the maximum-likelihood (mode) of the posterior distribution. This maxpost discharge is then cleaned in a similar manner to water column height, with any remaining gaps potentially being filled using the relationship with external data sources such as collocated USGS or LTER sites. Indicator flags identifying which cleaning and gap-filling method was used are included in the expanded data package.  The cleaned and gap-filled data is reported as continuous discharge.  In releases prior to RELEASE-2025, for Water Years prior to Water Year 2022, and for provisional data that have not yet been reviewed, the process for calculating maxpost discharge from water column height is the same, but the inputs and outputs have not been cleaned or gap-filled. 
