Generalizable predictive models of percent Nitrogen (%N) at 47 NEON terrestrial sites were developed by combining Level-1 1-m-resolution spectrometer orthorectified surface directional reflectance - flightline (DP1.30006.001) with ground-based measurements of %N from sunlit leaves that spatially and temporally overlapped with the imagery. Image spectra were extracted within sampling bounds for all tree crowns and herbaceous-clip strips across the 47 sites. Noisy and atmospheric absorption bands were removed, retaining the spectral regions 418.59-1335.04 nm, 1460.23-1770.72 nm, and 1986.06-2396.71 nm. To reduce the effects of internal canopy shade, the spectra were brightness-normalized by dividing the reflectance at each wavelength by the full-spectrum reflectance norm. The spectra were then divided into training, validation, and test sets using stratified sampling to ensure proportional geographic representation. To address the class imbalance between woody and herbaceous cover spectra, crown-specific subsampling was applied, limiting the number of pixels sampled per crown to five.

A Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifier was trained on spectra from foliar samples across all sites and years to categorize vegetation into "needle" and "non-needle" types, achieving an overall accuracy of 96.6%. These classes were defined due to the observed difference in model parameters between classes. No further classes were added to maintain a high number of training samples per class. A 100-model ensemble of regression models, including Random Forest, Support Vector, and Partial Least Squares, were constructed to predict %N using 327 reflectance bands. The best performance was delivered by the Random Forest models. Generalized Random Forest regression models were trained separately for needle and non-needle vegetation. Preliminary results indicated a promising capability to predict foliar nitrogen from NEON data collected in both field and airborne contexts, with an R² of 0.52 and an RMSE of 0.46.

The implementation of the Bidirectional Reflectance Distribution Function (BRDF) and topographic corrections to the recently collected airborne hyperspectral data from 2022 to 2025 has been completed. These corrections are currently being applied to hyperspectral data collected from 2013 to 2021. Once processing of the earlier data is finished, foliar trait maps will be generated using the corrected bi-directional reflectance. However, the preliminary maps provided here were created using uncorrected (directional) surface reflectance flight lines (DP1.30006.001). Additionally, the models (Support Vector Machine and Random Forest) were trained on this directional reflectance data.